=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Time::Str::Regexp - Precompiled regular expressions for date/time formats

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Time::Str::Regexp qw( $RFC3339_Rx $RFC2822_Rx $DateTime_Rx );

    if ($string =~ $RFC3339_Rx) {
      my %date = %+;
      ...
    }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides precompiled regular expressions for parsing date/time
strings in various standard formats. Each regex uses named captures to
extract date and time components.

All regexes are anchored (C<\A> ... C<\z>). They perform structural
matching only; semantic validation (e.g., day-of-month range, leap
years) is not performed by the regex.

=head1 NAMED CAPTURES

Successful matches populate C<%+> with the following keys:

=over 4

=item C<year>

Four-digit year (two-digit for C<ASN1UT>, C<RFC5280>, and RFC 850
within C<RFC2616>).

=item C<month>

Month number or name, depending on format.

=item C<day>

Day of month.

=item C<hour>

Hour (0-23, or 1-12 with meridiem).

=item C<minute>

Minute.

=item C<second>

Second.

=item C<fraction>

Fractional digits of the least significant time component present
(may represent fractional seconds, minutes, or hours).

=item C<day_name>

Day name when present (e.g., C<Mon>, C<Monday>).

=item C<meridiem>

AM/PM indicator (C<DateTime> only).

=item C<tz_offset>

Numeric timezone offset (e.g., C<+0100>, C<+01:00>).

=item C<tz_utc>

UTC designator (e.g., C<Z>, C<GMT>, C<UTC>).

=item C<tz_abbrev>

Timezone abbreviation (e.g., C<EST>, C<CET>).

=item C<tz_annotation>

RFC 9557 annotation tag (e.g., C<[Europe/Paris]>).

=back

=head1 EXPORTED VARIABLES

All variables are exportable on request. Nothing is exported by default.

=head2 Profiles of ISO 8601

=over 4

=item C<$ISO8601_Rx> - ISO 8601 (basic and extended format)

=item C<$RFC4287_Rx> - Atom feed timestamp (RFC 4287)

=item C<$W3CDTF_Rx> - W3C Date and Time Format

=item C<$RFC5545_Rx> - iCalendar (RFC 5545)

=back

=head2 Based on ISO 8601

=over 4

=item C<$RFC3339_Rx> - Internet timestamp (RFC 3339)

=item C<$RFC9557_Rx> - Timestamps with annotations (RFC 9557)

=item C<$ISO9075_Rx> - SQL timestamp (ISO 9075)

=item C<$ASN1GT_Rx> - ASN.1 GeneralizedTime

=item C<$ASN1UT_Rx> - ASN.1 UTCTime

=item C<$RFC5280_Rx> - X.509 certificate time (RFC 5280)

=back

=head2 RFC / IMF / HTTP / IMAP

=over 4

=item C<$RFC2822_Rx> - Internet Message Format (RFC 2822, canonical)

=item C<$RFC2822FWS_Rx> - RFC 2822 with folding white space and nested comments

=item C<$RFC2616_Rx> - HTTP-date (RFC 2616 / RFC 7231)

=item C<$RFC3501_Rx> - IMAP date-time (RFC 3501)

=back

=head2 Unix / C Library

=over 4

=item C<$ANSIC_Rx> - ANSI C ctime()/asctime()

=item C<$UnixDate_Rx> - Unix date(1) output

=item C<$UnixStamp_Rx> - Unix date based, with optional fractional seconds and timezone

=item C<$GitDate_Rx> - Git default date format

=item C<$RubyDate_Rx> - Ruby/Rails date format

=back

=head2 Other

=over 4

=item C<$ECMAScript_Rx> - ECMAScript Date.prototype.toString

=item C<$CLF_Rx> - Common Log Format

=item C<$DateTime_Rx> - Permissive multi-format parser

=back

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 mapping

    my %map = Time::Str::Regexp->mapping;
    my $map = Time::Str::Regexp->mapping;  # hashref in scalar context

Returns the format name to regex mapping. Keys are lowercase format
names; values are precompiled regexes.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Time::Str>, L<Time::Str::Token>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2026 by Christian Hansen

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
